So once you've decided what type of character you're going to be creating and decided on each individual
aspect of the character the next step is to move on to research.
Now research is a big part that a lot of people skip research is super important because it's going
to give that extra detail and that extra level of realism to your character even if your character is
a cartoon or a very stylized.
There's still a level of research that needs to go into them.
Also when you first starting your character you might feel a little stuck and you need some inspiration.
A really good place.
I loved come to for inspiration is Pinterest.
Now if you don't have an account with Pinterest you can go ahead and create one and then have a look
through all of their images.
What Pinterest is.
It's basically a visual library of images that people have pinned from all over the Internet.
The nice thing about it is it filters out all the junk.
You don't really get things that aren't visually pleasing on Pinterest.
All of it is pretty good looking and that's why I like to do a lot of my image searches on Pinterest.
So if I'm feeling stuck and I need some inspiration I'll very often come on to Pinterest and just start
searching through images.
So like right now we're trying to design a character.
So the first thing I might do is I might do an image search on Pinterest for character and this is what
comes up.
Now these characters might not be exactly what you're going for but it might get the wheels turning
in your head and gets you thinking about what you want to do.
It might give you a couple little ideas that you can run with and also might give you some ideas for
style.
So say for example you wanted your game characters to have this type of a style.
You could study this and see what kind of lines are they using what kind of corners do they have what
colors are they using.
That's a really good way to nail a style down for your character.
Sometimes also if I feel really stuck what I'll do is I'll just go through a whole bunch of images of
characters that I like or whatever I'm trying to create and I'll just recreate them I'll draw them and
I'll draw them over and over again.
So I might draw this girl and then I might also draw this girl if I'm doing a girl character I'll draw
a whole bunch of girls.
Now I'm not I don't take credit for the drawings and I never sell them and never do anything with them
but it definitely helps my skills and it warms me up to start drawing that type of a character.
It gets my brain thinking about what kind of lines and curves and different parts to that type of a
character.
There are to it so I very much recommend that you do that.
Also just draw a lot of different types of characters even if you have to copy them.
Now remember don't take credit for those drawings but it's ok to copy them if you're practicing.
So now you're getting some ideas.
Let's have a look at some game characters.
So I did a search for game character design and it came up with some really cool designs.
Also I'm really liking this style.
This is a really cool style and I think I might possibly go in this direction for our characters in
this course but if we keep scrolling down you'll see all different types of styles.
Now when I'm doing searches for character design I'm usually not really looking for the actual design
I'm looking for the style I just want to find a style that I like that I can kind of mimic and change
a little bit to make it my own style.
But that way I'm not just completely starting from scratch.
I really like these guys too.
And sometimes when you're trying to research for a character or get inspiration you want to look in
other places so instead of just doing searches for character designs maybe we're looking for a style
and we can't find it in character designs.
So what I would do is I do a search for something else for example just game design by itself and you
might begin the night you might get ideas just by looking at say backgrounds for games and you can take
that idea the lines and shapes and colors and those backgrounds and incorporate them into your character.
Have a look through some of these really really also liking this style too.
Very cool.
Liking the clean edges and the soft colors.
So once you're really getting an idea of what you want to do for your character it's time to start specifically
searching out research for that character.
For example I'm thinking that the character that I want to create is going to be some sort of caveman
type character.
So on Pinterest I did a search for prehistoric man and this brought up some really cool images of some
caveman like images.
So I would just use these as reference.
I'm not going to copy them but I would make mental notes.
For example I would make a note that a caveman usually has a very large upper brow.
They also usually have pretty big mouths and lips.
I can also make note of what their hair is like and their facial hair their eye colors what they're
wearing.
So in this image for example he's wearing fur over here he looks like he's got some bones hanging from
his ears and their hair is pretty wild and unkempt.
It also appears that a lot of them have beards.
So I can make notes of all of this.
So like I said you don't have to copy these and make them your character you can just make notes of
things that make a character seem like a caveman.
So if you're doing say a pirate character you can do image searches for pirates and make notes of what
all these pirates have in common.
Maybe they all have bandanas Maybe they all have a sword.
Maybe they all have a gold tooth.
Or many of them have a gold tooth.
These are the type of notes that you want to start creating as you're doing your research.
So then I did an image search for cavemen on Google to see what I could find.
It's always good to do research all over the place and not just in one area.
So not just one book or one Web site.
So I also make some mental notes here that a lot of these cavemen have really big arms and really broad
shoulders.
I also noticed that a lot of them are very hunched over as you can see.
They're also wearing fur once again and they're usually carrying some sort of a weapon.
So I can use these notes that I've made to help design my character.
As you're doing your research you'll probably start to come up with a few more ideas and your character
might evolve and change as you're designing him and thinking him up.
So as I was designing my character and thinking him up I decided that I wanted my my caveman to be more
of a jungle man slash caveman so kind of a mix.
So then I did an image search for jungle tribal man and this came up with some really cool images too.
So then what I'll do now is I'll take some mental notes of these images also such as the face painting
the dreadlocks the types of clothes they're wearing the feathers.
I make a note of all of this.
And now when I go to design my character I'm going to incorporate all these things and maybe add some
of my own little ideas.
But this is basically how I do my research and get my inspiration for my character design or any of
the type of artwork that I create.
Go ahead and go on to Pinterest and Google look at books.
Anything else you can think of to find research material or inspiration and go ahead and start developing
your character and finding out what types of things that type of character would have how they would
dress what they would wear.
Hope this lecture was helpful for you and I appreciate you watching it.
See in the next one.